README.md, before:

# 🛋️ Laterna (Server)

**Laterna** is a simple and lightweight REST API for viewing and setting HEX color codes over the web, written in go.

> [!NOTE]
> This project was developed with my own use case in mind.
> This is my first time building a REST API and my first time utilizing the go language.
> Expect bugs and weird annoyances/limitations

## ⚙️ Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/siestaw/laterna.git
cd laterna
```

### 2. Configure the server

Laterna requires a config.json file in the root directory. A [example config](https://github.com/siestaw/Laterna/blob/main/config.json.example) is provided

```sh
cp config.json.example config.json
```

You can leave the json as it is or configure it to your liking, although some configuration options (e.g. `verboseLogging`) aren't fully implemented yet.

### 3. Run

Make sure that go is installed (tested with Go 1.24.5 on Linux)

```sh
make run
```

For advanced Makefile options:

```sh
make help
```

## 🛜 API Documentation

### 🔑 Authentication

All requests require the **admin token** via the Authorization header:

```
Authorization: <token>
```

The token is shown once on the first startup. To regenerate it, run the server with:

```sh
./laterna --resetAdminToken
```

---

### 📦️ Endpoints

#### 🎛️ Controllers

| Method | Route          | Description                   |
| ------ | -------------- | ----------------------------- |
| POST   | `/controllers` | Create a new controller       |
| DELETE | `/controllers` | Delete an existing controller |

<details> <summary>🔧 Example Payload</summary>

```jsonc
// DELETE /controllers
{
    "ID": 1
}
```

</details>

#### 🎨 Colors

| Method | Route          | Description                                        |
| ------ | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| GET    | `/colors/`     | Get the current color of all available controllers |
| GET    | `/colors/{id}` | Get the current color of a specific controller     |
| PUT    | `/colors/{id}` | Set the color of a controller                      |

<details> <summary>🔧 Example Payload</summary>

```jsonc
// PUT /colors/1
{
    "Color": "#5398B7"
}
```

</details>

---

### 📥️ cURL examples

#### Create a new controller

```bash
$ curl -X POST localhost:8080/api/v1/controllers \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN"
```

#### Delete a controller

```bash
$ curl -X DELETE localhost:8080/api/v1/controllers \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN" \
       -d '{"ID": 1}'
```

#### Get every controllers colors

```bash
$ curl -X GET localhost:8080/api/v1/colors/ \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN"
```

#### Get a specific controllers's color

```bash
$ curl -X GET localhost:8080/api/v1/colors/1 \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN"
```

#### Set a controller's color

```bash
$ curl -X PUT localhost:8080/api/v1/colors/1 \
       -H "Authorization:$TOKEN" \
       -d '{"Color": "#C2C342"}'
```

---

### 📤️ Response Format

All responses follow this format:

```json
{
    "data": {
        "color": "#C16A31",
        "id": 1,
        "updated_at": "2025-07-28T19:47:46Z"
    },
    "status": 200,
    "success": true,
    "timestamp": "2025-07-28T20:40:58Z"
}
```

In case of an error:

```json
{
    "error": "Invalid token",
    "status": 401,
    "success": false,
    "timestamp": "2025-07-28T20:41:54Z"
}
```

Commit message:

feat(docs): add firewall and ufw instructions for linux users
im not sure which linux distributions are affected by this. i've had this problem on cachyos, but not on arch, so it may be the side effect on some weird default configurations

README.md, after:

# 🛋️ Laterna (Server)

**Laterna** is a simple and lightweight REST API for viewing and setting HEX color codes over the web, written in go.

> [!NOTE]
> This project was developed with my own use case in mind.
> This is my first time building a REST API and my first time utilizing the go language.
> Expect bugs and weird annoyances/limitations

## ⚙️ Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/siestaw/laterna.git
cd laterna
```

### 2. Configure the server

Laterna requires a config.json file in the root directory. A [example config](https://github.com/siestaw/Laterna/blob/main/config.json.example) is provided

```sh
cp config.json.example config.json
```

You can leave the json as it is or configure it to your liking, although some configuration options (e.g. `verboseLogging`) aren't fully implemented yet.

Make sure that your firewall supports connections to the configured port for laterna (default: `8080`), otherwise clients won't be able to connect to the API. You can do so by using ufw on most linux distributions

```sh
sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp
sudo ufw reload
```

Of course, you'll have to change `8080` to your desired port if configured otherwise


### 3. Run

Make sure that go is installed (tested with Go 1.24.5 on Linux)

```sh
make run
# OR
go run ./cmd/server/
```

For advanced Makefile options:

```sh
make help
```

## 🛜 API Documentation

### 🔑 Authentication

All requests require the **admin token** via the Authorization header:

```
Authorization: <token>
```

The token is shown once on the first startup. To regenerate it, run the server with:

```sh
./laterna --resetAdminToken
```

---

### 📦️ Endpoints

#### 🎛️ Controllers

| Method | Route          | Description                   |
| ------ | -------------- | ----------------------------- |
| POST   | `/controllers` | Create a new controller       |
| DELETE | `/controllers` | Delete an existing controller |

<details> <summary>🔧 Example Payload</summary>

```jsonc
// DELETE /controllers
{
    "ID": 1
}
```

</details>

#### 🎨 Colors

| Method | Route          | Description                                        |
| ------ | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| GET    | `/colors/`     | Get the current color of all available controllers |
| GET    | `/colors/{id}` | Get the current color of a specific controller     |
| PUT    | `/colors/{id}` | Set the color of a controller                      |

<details> <summary>🔧 Example Payload</summary>

```jsonc
// PUT /colors/1
{
    "Color": "#5398B7"
}
```

</details>

---

### 📥️ cURL examples

#### Create a new controller

```bash
$ curl -X POST localhost:8080/api/v1/controllers \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN"
```

#### Delete a controller

```bash
$ curl -X DELETE localhost:8080/api/v1/controllers \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN" \
       -d '{"ID": 1}'
```

#### Get every controllers colors

```bash
$ curl -X GET localhost:8080/api/v1/colors/ \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN"
```

#### Get a specific controllers's color

```bash
$ curl -X GET localhost:8080/api/v1/colors/1 \
       -H "Authorization: $TOKEN"
```

#### Set a controller's color

```bash
$ curl -X PUT localhost:8080/api/v1/colors/1 \
       -H "Authorization:$TOKEN" \
       -d '{"Color": "#C2C342"}'
```

---

### 📤️ Response Format

All responses follow this format:

```json
{
    "data": {
        "color": "#C16A31",
        "id": 1,
        "updated_at": "2025-07-28T19:47:46Z"
    },
    "status": 200,
    "success": true,
    "timestamp": "2025-07-28T20:40:58Z"
}
```

In case of an error:

```json
{
    "error": "Invalid token",
    "status": 401,
    "success": false,
    "timestamp": "2025-07-28T20:41:54Z"
}
```
